House-of-Dan README 27-Jun-2017 5:09:25 pm

zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz TBD. as_util_.s  Linux.s
zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz TBD 3 Morse Code Programs and associated text files.

The book hacker's delight by Henry S. Warren ISBN 0-201-91465-4
has an elegant algorithm for finding the 32 bit unsigned integer
reciprocal of a divisor. This allows one to replace a division
with a multiply, a shift and occaisionally needed add.
This is found on page 185.

I reworked the math and have 8 bit and 16 bit solutions as well.
These are found in:

SignedMagic.cpp    SignedMagic8.cpp   UnSignedMagic16.cpp
SignedMagic16.cpp  UnSignedMagic.cpp  UnSignedMagic8.cpp

The 8 bit and 16 bit are a logical extension as some 8 bit and
16 bit architectures have no divide instruction. The software
emulation of the divide is a very expensive operation.

I once had to normalize an array of 8 bit atod values. This
involved a subtract a multiply and 16 bit divide for every
number in the array. The number for the subtract, the multiply
and the divide was invarient with respect to the list.
I used a varient of the 16 bit version of Magic
which produced an h file containing the 256 16 bit values for
the reciprocal, shift and optional add.

Including the h file in a c interface which found the values
needed by indexing into the table. The list and values were
passed to an ARM 7 TDMI (w/o Divide) pipelined assembly
function which normalized the values.

I have even used the 8 bit version with Micro Chip 4520's
with success.

The classic 8 Queens placed on a Chess board which
do not attack each other has had a elegant solution
introduced by Dijkstra and Wirth. When coded in C or C++
the elegance vanishes with the harsh bare bones array of
the C language.

With some MACROS for pointer arithmetic, The elegance is
brought back to a C implementation: The use of Row+Column
and Row-Column as an index in C. (keep use of array bound
checking turned off). I Present:

Queens8.c

Scheme Toys to solve Word Logic problems.

The tool kit to allow the problems to be solved is:

amb.scm

This has amb defined which causes backtracking to an earlier
machine state. The machine states are saved with a
call-with-current-continuation. There are also operations
defined such as required, associated?, notassociated, permute,
set-difference and others which the logic problems are defined
with.

Each of the logic problems:
floors.scm
lolla.scm
sorority.scm
einstein.scm
kalotan.scm
marriage.scm   and
yachts.scm

does a (load "amb.scm")
to have access to the tool box.

All these are in the R5RS dialect of scheme.
To run these from Dr. Racket

select

Language
    Choose Language
        Other Languages
            R5RS
Run

